---
tags: wordpress
layout: post
title: Managing Events in Wordpress
category: yellow-belt
---

# Introduction

In this 2<sup>nd</sup> blogging tutorial (if you haven't read [the first
one](/white-belt/2012/03/07/wordpress-blogging/) yet, I would reccomend doing
so right now), we will be focusing on the 

## Administrating your Dynamic Site

At its heart, all a *blog* is a dynamic website. Like all dynamic websites,
this website is editable using a normal web-browser. In order to protect
against anonymous, un-verified edits, users are typically given administration
access. The amount of access given to a user account depends on the role of the
user. For example, a user with an author role may not edit or delete the posts
of others, but a user with an editor role may. The admin role always has full
access to the site (and can grant roles to other users) so there should always
be a textual account of who has admin roles on a given site.

# Logging in and Administrating

## Logging in
Log into your wordpress admin site by going to `http://<yoursite>/wp-admin`[^1]

where `<your site>` is your domain name, such as `example.com`. Enter your
username and password and click `Log In` to log in.

> ![Wordpress login example](/static/img/wordpress/wp-login.png)

# The Events Menu

When you first log into Wordpress, you will be presented with a list of options
on the left sidebar. Click on the `Events` link on the left sidebar to open the
Events Menu, as in this image:

> ![Wordpress event menu](/static/img/wordpress/wp-admin-event.png)

## The Events Listing Page

You will then find yourself on the events listing page. This page lists al of
the events in the database, along with their category, start date, and end
date. To edit en event, click on its title. To edit or delete multiple events,
click on the checkbox next to the events you want to modify, then click on the
`Bulk Actions` dropdown menu and select your desired action. 

> ![Wordpress event menu listing](/static/img/wordpress/wp-admin-event-list.png)

## Adding an Event

To add an event, click on the event add link on the left sidebar. You will be
presented with a form that is similar to a new *Page* or *Post* form:

> ![Wordpress add event menu](/static/img/wordpress/wp-admin-event-add.png)

Events are similar to posts in that they share the property of being
time-sensitive. Events have more than just date and time data, however. Events
also have a duration (end date; end time) and a location (a venue). Events are
also sponsored by organizations. To add a location and organization, scroll
the page down to show the additional form below the content-area field:

> ![Wordpress add event location and organizaer](/static/img/wordpress/wp-admin-event-add-locorg.png)

Notice that this new form allows you to use a saved venue, thus minimizing the
time it would take to re-input a previously-used venue. A similar concept
applies to organizations, so only create a new location or organization if it
isn't already in the database (don't repeat yourself!).

To verify and publish your event, you will be using the publish menu box (this
is the exact same method as a blog post):

> ![Wordpress post menu media insert](/static/img/wordpress/wp-admin-post-publish.png)

Remember that you can change the publish date of the event in this box, meaning
that it won't be visible until a certain date. *This will not affect the event
start date, so be sure the event is visible for some time before the actual
start date.* You can use this box to preview the event before publishing it to
the main site. Once the event is published to the main site, it will be listed
on the events page and the main page. It may be useful to include a featured
image in this case. To set the featured image, click `Set featured image`
listed below the Event publish and category boxes. Then select an image you
have previously uploaded to the server (be sure to check out the [first
guide](/white-belt/2012/03/07/wordpress-blogging/) with information on how to do this).

After that, it's a matter of running your event!


# Related Tutorials

* [Basic Blogging with Wordpress](/white-belt/2012/03/07/wordpress-blogging/) â€”
	White Belt

# Additional Resources

* [The Wordpress.org Codex (Documentation)](http://codex.wordpress.org/Main_Page)
* [File Uploading in Wordpress](http://codex.wordpress.org/Using_Images)

# Footnotes

[^1]: Variables listed in brackets (`<like this>`) should be replaced with the
user's information.
